README.md, before:

# `tap-cloudwatch`

CloudWatch tap for extracting log data from AWS Cloudwatch Logs Insights API.

Built with the [Meltano Singer SDK](https://sdk.meltano.com).

## Capabilities

* `catalog`
* `state`
* `discover`
* `about`
* `stream-maps`
* `schema-flattening`

## Settings

| Setting              | Required | Default | Description |
|:---------------------|:--------:|:-------:|:------------|
| aws_access_key_id    | False    | None    | The access key for your AWS account. |
| aws_secret_access_key| False    | None    | he secret key for your AWS account. |
| aws_session_token    | False    | None    | The session key for your AWS account. This is only needed when you are using temporary credentials. |
| aws_profile          | False    | None    | The AWS credentials profile name to use. The profile must be configured and accessible. |
| aws_endpoint_url     | False    | None    | The complete URL to use for the constructed client. |
| aws_region_name      | False    | None    | The AWS region name (e.g. us-east-1)  |
| start_date           | True     | None    | The earliest record date to sync |
| log_group_name       | True     | None    | The log group on which to perform the query. |
| query                | True     | None    | The query string to use. For more information, see [CloudWatch Logs Insights Query Syntax](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/CWL_QuerySyntax.html). |
| stream_maps          | False    | None    | Config object for stream maps capability. For more information check out [Stream Maps](https://sdk.meltano.com/en/latest/stream_maps.html). |
| stream_map_config    | False    | None    | User-defined config values to be used within map expressions. |
| flattening_enabled   | False    | None    | 'True' to enable schema flattening and automatically expand nested properties. |
| flattening_max_depth | False    | None    | The max depth to flatten schemas. |

A full list of supported settings and capabilities is available by running: `tap-cloudwatch --about`

### Configure using environment variables

This Singer tap will automatically import any environment variables within the working directory's
`.env` if the `--config=ENV` is provided, such that config values will be considered if a matching
environment variable is set either in the terminal context or in the `.env` file.

### Source Authentication and Authorization

<!--
Developer TODO: If your tap requires special access on the source system, or any special authentication requirements, provide those here.
-->

## Usage

You can easily run `tap-cloudwatch` by itself or in a pipeline using [Meltano](https://meltano.com/).

### Executing the Tap Directly

```bash
tap-cloudwatch --version
tap-cloudwatch --help
tap-cloudwatch --config CONFIG --discover > ./catalog.json
```

## Developer Resources

Follow these instructions to contribute to this project.

### Initialize your Development Environment

```bash
pipx install poetry
poetry install
```

### Create and Run Tests

Create tests within the `tap_cloudwatch/tests` subfolder and
  then run:

```bash
poetry run pytest
```

You can also test the `tap-cloudwatch` CLI interface directly using `poetry run`:

```bash
poetry run tap-cloudwatch --help
```

### Testing with [Meltano](https://www.meltano.com)

_**Note:** This tap will work in any Singer environment and does not require Meltano.
Examples here are for convenience and to streamline end-to-end orchestration scenarios._

<!--
Developer TODO:
Your project comes with a custom `meltano.yml` project file already created. Open the `meltano.yml` and follow any "TODO" items listed in
the file.
-->

Next, install Meltano (if you haven't already) and any needed plugins:

```bash
# Install meltano
pipx install meltano
# Initialize meltano within this directory
cd tap-cloudwatch
meltano install
```

Now you can test and orchestrate using Meltano:

```bash
# Test invocation:
meltano invoke tap-cloudwatch --version
# OR run a test `elt` pipeline:
meltano elt tap-cloudwatch target-jsonl
```

### SDK Dev Guide

See the [dev guide](https://sdk.meltano.com/en/latest/dev_guide.html) for more instructions on how to use the SDK to
develop your own taps and targets.

### Further Features

Using create_export_task to efficiently bulk export to S3 then read that data.

Commit message:

add missing setting to readme

README.md, after:

# `tap-cloudwatch`

CloudWatch tap for extracting log data from AWS Cloudwatch Logs Insights API.

Built with the [Meltano Singer SDK](https://sdk.meltano.com).

## Capabilities

* `catalog`
* `state`
* `discover`
* `about`
* `stream-maps`
* `schema-flattening`

## Settings

| Setting              | Required | Default | Description |
|:---------------------|:--------:|:-------:|:------------|
| aws_access_key_id    | False    | None    | The access key for your AWS account. |
| aws_secret_access_key| False    | None    | The secret key for your AWS account. |
| aws_session_token    | False    | None    | The session key for your AWS account. This is only needed when you are using temporary credentials. |
| aws_profile          | False    | None    | The AWS credentials profile name to use. The profile must be configured and accessible. |
| aws_endpoint_url     | False    | None    | The complete URL to use for the constructed client. |
| aws_region_name      | False    | None    | The AWS region name (e.g. us-east-1)  |
| start_date           | True     | None    | The earliest record date to sync |
| log_group_name       | True     | None    | The log group on which to perform the query. |
| query                | True     | None    | The query string to use. For more information, see [CloudWatch Logs Insights Query Syntax](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/CWL_QuerySyntax.html). |
| batch_increment_mins | False    |    1440 | The size of the time window to query by, default 1440 mins (i.e. 1 day). The tap will raise an exception if the result set is greater than the max limit of 10,000 records because it can't be sure that all data is extracted. If this happens you'll need to reduce this batch_increment_mins setting to retrieve a smaller record set per query. |
| stream_maps          | False    | None    | Config object for stream maps capability. For more information check out [Stream Maps](https://sdk.meltano.com/en/latest/stream_maps.html). |
| stream_map_config    | False    | None    | User-defined config values to be used within map expressions. |
| flattening_enabled   | False    | None    | 'True' to enable schema flattening and automatically expand nested properties. |
| flattening_max_depth | False    | None    | The max depth to flatten schemas. |

A full list of supported settings and capabilities is available by running: `tap-cloudwatch --about`

### Configure using environment variables

This Singer tap will automatically import any environment variables within the working directory's
`.env` if the `--config=ENV` is provided, such that config values will be considered if a matching
environment variable is set either in the terminal context or in the `.env` file.

### Source Authentication and Authorization

<!--
Developer TODO: If your tap requires special access on the source system, or any special authentication requirements, provide those here.
-->

## Usage

You can easily run `tap-cloudwatch` by itself or in a pipeline using [Meltano](https://meltano.com/).

### Executing the Tap Directly

```bash
tap-cloudwatch --version
tap-cloudwatch --help
tap-cloudwatch --config CONFIG --discover > ./catalog.json
```

## Developer Resources

Follow these instructions to contribute to this project.

### Initialize your Development Environment

```bash
pipx install poetry
poetry install
```

### Create and Run Tests

Create tests within the `tap_cloudwatch/tests` subfolder and
  then run:

```bash
poetry run pytest
```

You can also test the `tap-cloudwatch` CLI interface directly using `poetry run`:

```bash
poetry run tap-cloudwatch --help
```

### Testing with [Meltano](https://www.meltano.com)

_**Note:** This tap will work in any Singer environment and does not require Meltano.
Examples here are for convenience and to streamline end-to-end orchestration scenarios._

<!--
Developer TODO:
Your project comes with a custom `meltano.yml` project file already created. Open the `meltano.yml` and follow any "TODO" items listed in
the file.
-->

Next, install Meltano (if you haven't already) and any needed plugins:

```bash
# Install meltano
pipx install meltano
# Initialize meltano within this directory
cd tap-cloudwatch
meltano install
```

Now you can test and orchestrate using Meltano:

```bash
# Test invocation:
meltano invoke tap-cloudwatch --version
# OR run a test `elt` pipeline:
meltano elt tap-cloudwatch target-jsonl
```

### SDK Dev Guide

See the [dev guide](https://sdk.meltano.com/en/latest/dev_guide.html) for more instructions on how to use the SDK to
develop your own taps and targets.

### Further Features

Using create_export_task to efficiently bulk export to S3 then read that data.
